What is a stored procedure?

A stored procedure is a prepared SQL code that you can save, so the code can be reused over and over again. So if you have an SQL query that you write over and over again, save it as a stored procedure, 
and then just call it to execute it. You can also pass parameters to a stored procedure, so that the stored procedure can act based on the parameter value(s) 
that is passed.

Stored Procedure Features

1.Stored Procedure increases the performance of the applications. Once stored procedures are created, they are compiled and stored in the database.
2. Stored procedure reduces the traffic between application and database server. Because the application has to send only the stored procedure's name and parameters instead of sending multiple SQL statements.
3. Stored procedures are reusable and transparent to any applications.
4. A procedure is always secure. The database administrator can grant permissions to applications that access stored procedures in the database without giving any permissions on the database tables.

Syntax to create stored procedure:

CREATE PROCEDURE procedure_name [[IN | OUT | INOUT] parameter_name datatype [, parameter datatype]) ]    
AS
sql_statement
GO;

MySQL procedure parameter has one of three modes:

IN parameter - It is the default mode. It takes a parameter as input, such as an attribute. When we define it, the calling program has to pass an argument to the stored procedure. This parameter's value is always protected.

OUT parameters - It is used to pass a parameter as output. Its value can be changed inside the stored procedure, and the changed (new) value is passed back to the calling program. It is noted that a procedure cannot access the OUT parameter's initial value when it starts.

INOUT parameters -  It is a combination of IN and OUT parameters. It means the calling program can pass the argument, and the procedure can modify the INOUT parameter, and then passes the new value back to the calling program.

Syntax to exceute stored procedure

EXEC procedure_name;
